I'm Johnny and this is my North Beach
making pasta fagioli aka pasta fazool
this is a favorite of mine and it's also
a favorite of lovely on more thirteen
who suggested that I make this on
youtube so that's what I'm cooking today
so let me show you the ingredients for
pasta fazool
here's a cannellini beans that I soaked
overnight de tolly nee the little short
cut pasta extra virgin olive oil celery
onion garlic fresh Italian parsley bay
leaf dried oregano sea salt black pepper
tomato puree and some pecorino so let me
get the Odori going first I'm gonna use
celery and onion so there's one the
second one see these leaves over here
this is gonna get flavor to it if I got
celery leaves we're gonna use them okay
there's my celery then we're gonna take
a half an onion okay down we got a
little bit of garlic here
babul and babul is this a rough chop
also let me get my pan going I'm using
this enamel pot we're gonna give it some
olive oil maybe about two tablespoons
I'd say get these in does the celery the
onions the garlic bay leaf
well that goodness is going right in
there I don't want to get any color on
this so I'm gonna keep a good eye on it
and we just want them to soften a little
bit they'll finish cooking in the in the
soup of course but I just want to cook
them a little bit to bring out their
flavor any time I'm making a soup or a
stew I'll always start this way by
cooking your herbs or your garlic onions
we'll just let those go for a minute
isn't
now that the onions and the celery have
sweated down a little bit this is my
Sicilian art oregano and they're gonna
add that now just let that toast up I've
got the cannellini beans that I soaked
overnight and I'm gonna put a cup or two
of these in you don't want to soak beans
overnight because you can use can
cannellini beans just make sure that you
drain them well because you know there's
gonna be a lot of that starts down at
the bottom of the candy you don't want
that in here we're gonna add some water
to this you could use chicken stock you
can use vegetable stock but this is
going to be such a flavorful dish I
don't think you need it I don't want the
salt I don't want the other flavor so
I'm just using some good old Hetch
Hetchy water here in San Francisco you
want to make sure that you're more than
fully covering the beans so we're gonna
bring the the heat up to high the lid on
the jar and we'll just test these in
about 15 minutes and see if the beans
are tender so the beans have been
cooking for about ten minutes in the
boiling water so I just want to add the
final ingredients here before the pasta
goes in so I'm just going to add some
parsley here to help flavor that broth
right because it's just water a little
bit of salt and pepper and then we can
always adjust this is a tomato puree
from Italy
so I'm going to add some of this for
color take a look you see how we're
doing I think my beans are gonna be let
me taste one for you don't get burnt
here mmm
beans are around just about for the
cleaning stage
time to get my DEET aleni
you know usually my mother used to make
this with de tolly right there but it's
it ended over here no way and I because
they're a bigger cut than this it's hard
to find Attali this cut sometimes so
DITA Lina you see more often so I'm
using that it's gonna be just as good
[Applause]
some people like to cook their pastas
separate and then add it so there's one
downside to doing it this way the pasta
is gonna swell up so you better eat this
soon the good thing is that some of that
starch from the D talena are gonna help
thicken this soup so we'll let it go
probably about another five six minutes
and we're gonna we're gonna be eating
some pasta fazool let me taste it I've
got a bean and I got something I think
it's gonna be done
perfect these a little salt right oh is
it just salt and pepper now give it a
little bit of fresh pepper too here okay
so this isn't a real watery soup see you
can see ER Co thicken because it had the
starch coming off the pasta it's the way
you want okay so here's our pasta fazool
I'm just gonna brighten it up a little
bit with some parsley
I saw the boiled a little drizzle a
little pecorino look at the mess I made
over get that all in there that cheese
is expensive I don't want to lose any
okay let me take a little bit here see
how nice and thick it is though you
don't want this to be like a broth look
at that some of the beans some it a
little de tolly nee burn in my hand
mmm just like my mother made it in
Jersey be sure you subscribe and you can
check out another episode here
[Music]
hey what are you waiting for click son
[Applause]
when the moon eat your face wake up big
pizza pie dance some more day when the
stars make you drool
that's pasta fazool and I'm having some
more rave
[Music]